A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.
A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.
A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.
Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.
Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.
A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.
Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.
A cat cannot see directly under its nose.
Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.
Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.
Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.
Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.
The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).
Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.
The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.
Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body
Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.
The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).
Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.
Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.
One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.
Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.
Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.
A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.
A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.
A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.
When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.
A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.
The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).
In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.
A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.
In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.
According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.
When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.
A group of cats is called a clowder.
Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""
If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.
Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.
Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.
The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.
Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles
A group of cats is called a “clowder.”
Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.
People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.
Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.
Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.
According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.
Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.
Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.
At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.
The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.
A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.
The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).
Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.
The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.
The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.
A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.
Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.
 A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.
A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.
In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.
A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.
The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.
Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.
The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.
A form of AIDS exists in cats.
Cats dislike citrus scent.
The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).
Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.
The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".
While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.
Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.
When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.
Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.
A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.
Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.
